Elon Musk's company SpaceX is preparing to launch its Starship spacecraft into Earth's orbit for the first time.

It marks the spacecraft's 14th flight. Previous tests were suborbital - a flight where the spacecraft reaches space, but does not travel fast enough or long enough to stay there.

The rocket splits in two shortly after take off - the booster, which is the bottom half, will fall back to Earth roughly seven minutes after launch, landing in the Gulf of Mexico.

During the 10-hour flight, Starship will aim to complete roughly six orbits of Earth and deploy Starlink V3 satellites, before splashing down in the Pacific Ocean, west of Chile.

Musk hopes to revolutionise space travel by eventually making Starship the world's first fully-reusable launch vehicle.

He also hopes the spacecraft will one day carry crew to the Moon, Mars and beyond. Today, it is uncrewed.

Previous test flights haven't all been smooth sailing with several incidents in 2025, including the rocket exploding into a giant fireball on its stand in June. Recent tests have been more successful.

What is a Spaceship?

Starship is a spacecraft and rocket designed by Elon Musk's company SpaceX.

Musk wants it to revolutionise spaceflight by being "fully reusable" - something he has previously characterised as the "holy grail" of space technology.

The company describes Starship as "the world's most powerful launch vehicle ever developed", designed to eventually carry crew and cargo "to Earth orbit, the Moon, Mars and beyond".

It consists of two main parts - the spacecraft and the so-called Super Heavy rocket. Starship is 124m (407ft) in height and 9m wide.

Its payload capacity (the maximum mass a launch vehicle can deliver to a particular orbit) is more than 100 tonnes.

Its longer-term aim is to be able to carry up to 100 people on "long-duration, interplanetary flights". This flight - its 14th test flight - is uncrewed and aims to send Starship into orbit around Earth for the first time.

Both parts of the rocket will land in the sea today but usually the booster is caught during a controlled landing - this is part of the mission to make the Starship fully reusable in the future.

If all goes to plan, Starship 14 will go orbital today for the first time, looping around Earth as many as six times.

It’s a significant test of SpaceX as the company tries to move Starship out of its testing phase into full, reliable operation.

SpaceX has proven it can build the world’s largest and most powerful rocket to date - the rocket today will stand at more than 100 metres.

But it needs to show that it can get the capsule beyond Earth’s sub-orbit. Since launching for the first time three years ago, nearly half of Starship’s 13 missions have ended in unintended explosions.

SpaceX says its motto is to push capacities to the extreme and that it is content to fail along the way - but the clock is ticking for the company to prove to US space agency Nasa that it has reliable space vehicles and systems.

Starship has a multi-billion dollar contract with Nasa to carry astronauts to the Moon as part of America’s Artemis programme.

Today could mark a new phase in the development of SpaceX’s rocket, but also introduce new risks as it will be harder to quickly pull the capsule back to Earth if something goes wrong.


The Starship rocket has launched, as it heads to Earth's orbit for the first time.

We’re now seeing the upper-stage rocket separate from the Super Heavy booster.

The booster is set to splash down in the Gulf of Mexico in about five minutes.

The Super Heavy booster, which separated from the upper stage about five minutes ago, has now splashed down in the Gulf of Mexico.

There was a large applause from SpaceX as the booster landed in the Gulf.

SpaceX does have the ability to catch it at a landing pad, but has opted not to for today's test.

The SpaceX livestream says one of the booster’s 33 engines may have shut down. But that doesn't stop Starship from launching.

"Things are going pretty well so far," the narrator says in the livestream as the speed passes 10,000km/h.

At the time of writing, the speed is already over 26,000km/h.

The engine has now been cut off on the Ship, the top part of the rocket that is remaining in flight.

The next stage will be deciding if they will orbit the Earth.

"We're only going to commit to orbit if everything is looking really healthy," the presenter on the SpaceX stream says.

He then says they will not be going into orbit today, but then says they are reassessing this.

SpaceX says the Starship has experienced an engine issue during ascent, after one of the six engines shut down earlier than planned.

The vehicle has reached space successfully, but the team initially decided not to perform the additional burn required for orbital insertion.

The livestream presenter later said they are reassessing the situation, and has not yet completely ruled out an orbital attempt.

Some drama now as SpaceX decide whether or not to push Starship 14 into orbit. After reported issues with one of the craft's six RVacs or engines, the company's engineers need to make that final call in the next few minutes.

It's a big decision because once the Starship goes into Earth's orbit, it's much harder to pull the craft back down to Earth in case of a problem, so the flight becomes more dangerous.

SpaceX want to be sure that it is the right decision to push Starship into orbit, or whether to re-schedule this flight.

The SpaceX livestream has just confirmed that Starship will launch into orbit as planned.

It comes after one of the engines unexpectedly shut down and we heard some back and forth over whether they would send it to orbit Earth.

We will bring you further updates soon, and as a reminder, you can watch live above.

We are now seeing the spaceship enter orbit as the orbital insertion burn begins. It's the first time the rocket has entered Earth's orbit.

It it due to go around Earth six times, and deploy 26 Starlink satellites.

SpaceX is now undertaking the next phase of today's mission. Starship is starting to deploy its payload - 26 Starlink V3 satellites.

The process is set to last about 30 minutes.

The test flight today could be as long as 10 hours as the Starship capsule attempts to loop around Earth six times.

Until now, all Starship flights have been suborbital, meaning the capsules were high enough to reach space, but did not travel fast enough or long enough to complete a loop around the Earth. Most of the previous flights were about one hour.

Today, Starship is travelling at about 275km above Earth in orbit, and the company want to push the craft to its limits. That will involve collecting data throughout the flight and deploying new generation Starlink satellites.

The longer Starship can spend in orbit, the more SpaceX can test the craft and collect valuable information.

The long flight should also allow the company to line the capsule up for a re-entry point near the west coast of Chile, but if required, it could end the flight earlier.

We are watching Starship spit out 26 Starlink satellites, one by one.

The rocket is now over Madagascar, after passing over the southern tip of South Africa, having been launched from Texas in the US.

If everything goes as planned, the ship will splash down in the Pacific Ocean, west of Chile, in just over nine hours.

As we’ve been reporting, one of the six RVac engines shut down unexpectedly earlier, prompting a review of whether Starship should continue with its planned orbital insertion burn.

According to SpaceX's livestream, the RVac engines are not needed for the rest of the journey, but engineers need to review the health of the remaining engines, particularly the three sea-level engines.

The team has examined the indicators for those engines and decided they look healthy.

As a result, they voted for the operation to go ahead as planned.

All 26 Starlink V3 satellites have now been deployed from Starship.

SpaceX says it is shortly going to reach it's initial checkpoint. That’s where the team can check everything and decide whether Starship needs to return early.

If nothing goes wrong, Starship will complete its six orbits as planned and return to Earth in about nine hours.

An orbit takes around 90 minutes.

As we've just mentioned, the SpaceX team will decide within 20 minutes whether Starship will return home early.

According to the livestream, "some discussions" are under way. The mission had planned to have the rocket orbit the Earth six times.

"We're only going to continue if we're really confident that everything's looking healthy on those key systems," the SpaceX livestream host says. "A couple of minutes to go until we get to that point."

The SpaceX livestream host has just said that Starship will return to Earth earlier than the planned 10-hour flight in space.

"We are looking like we are going to take our first checkpoint and come back early," the host says. "Essentially all that means is we're not going to spend as many orbits around Earth."

Despite returning the craft early, the SpaceX host says: "this has been a wildly successful day so far".

All 26 Starlink V3 satellites have been deployed, as we reported earlier.

In an updated timeline, the host says the deorbit burn will happen around two hours and 12 minutes into the flight. That is about 40 minutes from now.

Starship is then set to land in the Pacific Ocean a little over three hours into the mission.

For now, Starship is in orbit and will remain there, the host says.

Starlink satellites delivered into orbit will 'greatly' increase user speeds – SpaceX

One of the objectives of the mission, which has already been completed, was the delivery of 26 "next generation" Starlink V3 satellites into orbit.

Those join the existing Starlink constellation in low Earth orbit which deliver broadband internet on Earth.

The new satellites added today will "greatly expand the network's capacity and user speeds", SpaceX says.

As we reported earlier, the satellites were carried into orbit by the Starship. After exiting the Starship they unfold their antennas and make initial contact with the ground and the rest of the satellite constellation via radio and laser links, SpaceX says.

Nasa administrator Jared Isaacman has congratulated SpaceX on its Starship mission.

Writing on X he said it was a, external "gorgeous launch, getting Ship to orbit and managing every step in a safe, responsible, and especially inspirational way".

He added that Nasa is "excited to help where we can and for Starship missions to become routine!"

In 2024, Isaacman became the first non-professional astronaut to walk in space.

Starship is preparing for its de-orbit burn, says SpaceX on social media.

The burn will last about 11 seconds, marking the start of its return to Earth.

Starship is now starting its de-orbit burn, about two hours and 12 minutes into the flight.

It is set to splash down in the Pacific Ocean in about an hour.

It was supposed to de-orbit about nine hours into the mission.

SpaceX has announced that the mission is ending early, with the ship reaching its first checkpoint about 90 minutes into the flight.

SpaceX has just given another update on the timeline.

The team expects a "light show" to start within the next 30 minutes, as Starship moves through the upper parts of Earth's atmosphere.

We can expect to see the plasma build up as Starship makes its way through.

The "formal entry point" is expected about two hours and 47 minutes into the flight, according to the live stream host. That is about 30 minutes from now.

SpaceX is targeting a landing at around three hours, eight minutes and 30 seconds into the flight, the host adds.

If the Starship's engines hadn't engaged in the de-orbit burn and it hadn't happened effectively, the consequences would have been that the Starship could have stayed orbiting Earth, science journalist Caroline Steel tells the BBC.

This would add to the space junk problem that we have, she says.

SpaceX "really only wanted to keep orbiting if they were sure they would be able to get the Starship back down to earth", she adds.

"That was incredibly impressive seeing how small and short that engine blast was to get the rocket back down to Earth. Tiny changes in angles and speeds really add up over time."

Steel explains now the rocket is going in a slightly different direction, and the gravitational pull will bring it back down to Earth.

We're now seeing Starship beginning to re-enter Earth’s atmosphere on the live stream.

If everything goes smoothly, we'll see it splash down in the Pacific Ocean in about 20 minutes.

You can watch live at the top of the page.

Starship is now three hours into its flight and only a few minutes away from splashing down.

The light show you can see on the livestream shows it entering the Earth's atmosphere. It it lining up for a splashdown in the Northern Pacific, SpaceX says.

The livestream shows the "plasma build up" as it is "rapidly" slowing down, SpaceX says.

Starship has just splashed down in the Pacific Ocean.

That comes after the spacecraft completed about three hours of orbital flight.

The mission was supposed to last about 10 hours, but SpaceX announced it was ending early after 90 minutes.

That was not the soft splashdown that the 13th test flight saw back in July. Back then, there was no big fireball like the one we just witnessed.

Nonetheless, huge cheers were heard from the crowd behind the SpaceX livestream when the rocket landed in the Pacific Ocean with a huge fireball.

Now, both parts of the rocket are in the northern hemisphere.

SpaceX will be absolutely delighted with how today went.

This was the first time they were aiming to send Starship into Earth's orbit – before now they had only made it to sub-orbit. They have now reached the velocity and height needed to propel it into orbit after deciding to push on after some drama over one engine not working properly.

It was however supposed to be a nine-hour flight with three loops of the earth, but they've cut that down to two loops now.

We don't know why, but some observers have said the capsule was looking a bit ropey, and perhaps there were signs that SpaceX wanted to bring it back early just to be cautious.

Ultimately, SpaceX wants its rockets and spacecrafts to be reusable. SpaceX chief executive Elon Musk frequently boasts that this will be a core feature of Starship and is an important part of the company's business model.

SpaceX has previously pulled off spectacular catches of its rocket boosters in the signature "chop-stick" manoeuvre – when two giant pincers catch the fiery booster as they fall back to Earth. The first time that happened was October 2024.

But in this launch, neither the booster nor spacecraft will be recovered for re-use. The booster landed in the Gulf of Mexico, and the Starship 14 capsule splashed down in the Pacific Ocean.

SpaceX usually try to collect the booster and capsules that return to Earth to analyse what happened to them during flight - that may not be possible with the Ship today after it landed so explosively.

fonte: https://www.bbc.com/news/live/c65ymmpzev1mt